Huggingface Model Deployer (#2376)
zenml-io/zenml: docs/book/stacks-and-components/component-guide/model-deployers/huggingface.md

Reviewer: Can you also add this new one to the `toc.md` in the appropriate place?

---
description: Deploying models to Huggingface Inference Endpoints with Hugging Face :hugging_face:.
---

# Hugging Face :hugging_face:

Hugging Face Inference Endpoints provides a secure production solution to easily deploy any `transformers`, `sentence-transformers`, and `diffusers` models on a dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face. An Inference Endpoint is built from a model from the [Hub](https://huggingface.co/models).

This service provides dedicated and autoscaling infrastructure managed by Hugging Face, allowing you to deploy models without dealing with containers and GPUs.

## When to use it?

You should use Hugging Face Model Deployer:

* if you want to deploy [Transformers, Sentence-Transformers, or Diffusion models](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/supported_tasks) on dedicated and secure infrastructure.
* if you prefer a fully-managed production solution for inference without the need to handle containers and GPUs.

> * if your goal is to turn your models into production-ready APIs with minimal infrastructure or MLOps involvement * Cost-effectiveness is crucial, and you want to pay only for the raw compute resources you use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* if your goal is to turn your models into production-ready APIs with minimal infrastructure or MLOps involvement 
* Cost-effectiveness is crucial, and you want to pay only for the raw compute resources you use.
```

* Enterprise security is a priority, and you need to deploy models into secure offline endpoints accessible only via a direct connection to your Virtual Private Cloud (VPCs).

If you are looking for a more easy way to deploy your models locally, you can use the [MLflow Model Deployer](mlflow.md) flavor.

## How to deploy it?

> The Huggingface Model Deployer flavor is provided by the Huggingface ZenML integration, so you need to install it on your local machine to be able to deploy your models. You can do this by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Hugging Face Model Deployer flavor is provided by the Hugging Face ZenML integration, so you need to install it on your local machine to be able to deploy your models. You can do this by running the following command:
```

We can now use the model deployer in our stack.

```bash
zenml stack update <CUSTOM_STACK_NAME> --model-deployer=<MODEL_DEPLOYER_NAME>
```

See the [huggingface_model_deployer_step](https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/latest/integration_code_docs/integrations-seldon/#zenml.integrations.huggingface.steps.huggingface_deployer.huggingface_model_deployer_step) for an example of using the Huggingface Model Deployer to deploy a model inside a ZenML pipeline step.

## Configuration

Within the `HuggingFaceServiceConfig` you can configure:

* `model_name`: the name of the model in ZenML.
* `endpoint_name`: the name of inference endpoint. We add a prefix `zenml-` and first 8 characters of service uuid as suffix to the endpoint name.
* `repository`: The repository name in the user’s namespace (`{username}/{model_id}`) or in the organization namespace (`{organization}/{model_id}`) from the Hugging Face hub.
* `framework`: The machine learning framework used for the model (e.g. `"custom"`, `"pytorch"` )
* `accelerator`: The hardware accelerator to be used for inference. (e.g. `"cpu"`, `"gpu"`)
* `instance_size`: The size of the instance to be used for hosting the model (e.g. `"large"`, `"xxlarge"`)

> * `instance_type`: Inference Endpoints offers a selection of curated CPU and GPU instances. (e.g. `"c6i"`, `"g5.12xlarge"`)

Author: There are no docs. I have included link to [code](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/5e3b603ccc7cd6523d998e75f82848215abf9415/src/huggingface_hub/hf_api.py#L6957) instead.

* `account_id`: (Optional) The account ID used to link a VPC to a private Inference Endpoint (if applicable).
* `min_replica`: (Optional) The minimum number of replicas (instances) to keep running for the Inference Endpoint. Defaults to `0`.
* `max_replica`: (Optional) The maximum number of replicas (instances) to scale to for the Inference Endpoint. Defaults to `1`.
* `revision`: (Optional) The specific model revision to deploy on the Inference Endpoint for the Hugging Face repository .
* `task`: Select a supported [Machine Learning Task](https://huggingface.co/docs/inference-endpoints/supported_tasks). (e.g. `"text-classification"`, `"text-generation"`)
* `custom_image`: (Optional) A custom Docker image to use for the Inference Endpoint.
* `namespace`: The namespace where the Inference Endpoint will be created. The same namespace can be passed used while registering the Huggingface model deployer.
* `endpoint_type`: (Optional) The type of the Inference Endpoint, which can be `"protected"`, `"public"` (default) or `"private"`.

For more information and a full list of configurable attributes of the Huggingface Model Deployer, check out

> the [API Docs]().

Author: Not sure if the link is correct https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/latest/integration_code_docs/integrations-huggingface/#zenml.integrations.huggingface.model_deployers

> the [API Docs]().

Reviewer: looks ok to me

        pipeline_step_name=pipeline_step_name,
        model_name=model_name,
        running=running,
    )

    if not existing_services:
        raise RuntimeError(
            f"No Huggingface inference endpoint deployed by step "
            f"'{pipeline_step_name}' in pipeline '{pipeline_name}' with name "
            f"'{model_name}' is currently running."
        )

    return existing_services[0]

# Use the service for inference
@step
def predictor(
    service: HuggingFaceDeploymentService,
    data: str
) -> Annotated[str, "predictions"]:
    """Run a inference request against a prediction service"""

    prediction = service.predict(data)
    return prediction

@pipeline
def huggingface_deployment_inference_pipeline(
    pipeline_name: str, pipeline_step_name: str = "huggingface_model_deployer_step",
):
    inference_data = ...
    model_deployment_service = prediction_service_loader(
        pipeline_name=pipeline_name,
        pipeline_step_name=pipeline_step_name,
    )
    predictions = predictor(model_deployment_service, inference_data)
```

For more information and a full list of configurable attributes of the Huggingface Model Deployer, check out

> the [SDK Docs]().

Author: Not sure if the link is correct `https://sdkdocs.zenml.io/latest/integration_code_docs/integrations-huggingface/#zenml.integrations.huggingface.model_deployers`
